So here in this concept,
let's look at the principles of clinical networking and
what would be a good integration points for an AI algorithm.
First, a quick recap on DICOM.
You should be very familiar with DICOM by now.
So DICOM stands for Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine.
We have looked at the imaging and storage aspect of the DICOM.
So we have learned how to store images and how to represent voxels in a digital format.
DICOM defines that, but also DICOM
defines something that we mentioned in the beginning of the course,
which is called DIMSE and DICOMWeb,
these are the networking services.
These are the networking services that define
how medical imaging data flows in a clinical network.
Also important thing to remember about DICOM is that it's
free and open source standard is published on the web, you can look it up.
DICOM is used by all radiological modalities.
So in this lesson, we will focus on this networking aspect of DICOM,
and we will take a brief intro into
what that means and how is DICOM networking portion setup.
So this is an image which represents the DICOM general communication model.
These are all the concepts that represents a single,
what's called application entity in a DICOM's peak.
Application entity is this thing that
provides various services that operate on DICOM objects.
We have seen this storage service that DICOM application entities might provide,
and a DICOM application entity might be a thing like a modality,
CT or MRI scanner.
DICOM application entity could be a storage system,
it could be a diagnostic workstation,
and of course, AI server that
serves some AI model result could also be a DICOM application entity.
So remember how we discuss the SOP classes in the DICOM lesson.
SOP stands for service objects pair, as you might remember.
We so far has been focusing on the storage service.
DICOM application entities can provide networking services,
and this is what we're going to focus on in this lesson.
First, let's focus on one type of DICOM networking service,
which is called DIMSE.
DIMSE stands for DICOM message service elements.
DIMSE basically defines a way for
application entities to communicate over a local area network.
DIMSE defines several services that this application entities may provide and
several services that might allow
one application entity to ask something from another application entities.